Brief outline of Company’s CSR Policy, including overview of projects or programmes proposed
to be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR Policy and projects or programmes.
Introduction
The vision and philosophy of late Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the group. He embodied the concept of
trusteeship in business and common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and
transparent functioning.
Bajaj Group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond
balance sheets or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business
and industry make to the lives of people.
Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the
vicinity of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
conservation, infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities.
For society, however, Bajaj is more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment
and the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.
It is this goodwill that has made us “The World’s Favourite Indian”
Guiding principles
The Bajaj Group believes that social investments should:
l Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society
over long periods.
l Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.
l Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education
and productivity.
l Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
to create excellence for self and for the team.
l Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it
has a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.
l Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
lowest rung irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.
l Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.
CSR Policy
A detailed CSR Policy was framed by the Company on 14 May 2014, with approvals of the
CSR Committee and Board of Directors. The Policy, inter alia, covers the following:
l Philosophy
l Scope
l List of CSR activities
l Modalities of execution of Projects/Programmes
l Implementation through CSR Cell
l Monitoring and Assessment of Projects/Programmes
CSR Policy gives an overview of the projects or programmes, which are undertaken by the Company
from time to time.
The CSR Policy is placed on the Company's website www.bajajauto.com/pdf/csr-policy-bal.pdf
WWW.CAPITALINE.COM
Directors’ Report
80 BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
2. Composition of the CSR Committee
A Committee of the directors, titled ‘Corporate Social Responsibility Committee’, which was
constituted by the Board at its meeting held on 28 March 2014, has the following members:
Rahul Bajaj, Chairman
Rajiv Bajaj
Nanoo Pamnani
Pradeep Shrivastava
During the year under review, the Committee met four times on 20 September 2018,
9 October 2018, 19 December 2018, and 22 February 2019.
3. Average net profit of the Company for last three financial years prior to 2018-19:
H 5,559.80 crore
4. Prescribed CSR Expenditure (2% of amount as in item No. 3): H 111.20 crore.
5. Details of CSR spent during the financial year:
Particulars (H In Crore).
a. Total amount to be spent: 111.20
b. Amount spent: 112.32
c. Amount unspent, if any (a-b): Nil
d. Manner in which the amount spent/committed during the financial year:
As provided in enclosed Table 1.
6. In case the Company fails to spend the 2% of the average net profit (INR) of the last three
financial years, the reasons for not spending the amount shall be stated in the Board Report.-
Not Applicable
In addition to what is stated above, Bajaj Group implements many CSR initiatives of substantial
value through its Group Charitable Trusts operating at various locations in the country.
Major initiatives that continued and/or that were taken up anew by the Bajaj Group through such
entities during the year under review are given in another detailed report, which is hosted on the
Company's website www.bajajauto.com and a physical copy of this report will be made available to
any shareholder on request.
7. Responsibility statement of the CSR Committee that the implementation and monitoring of CSR
Policy is in compliance with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.
The CSR Committee confirms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy is in
compliance with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.
Rahul Bajaj Rajiv Bajaj
Chairman of CSR Committee Managing Director and CEO
Pune: 17 May 2019